README.md, before:


<p align="center">
  <img width="460" height="300" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fabawi/wrapyfi/main/assets/wrapyfi.png">
</p>


<hl/>

[![webpage](https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/badge/Page-blue.svg?logo=globe&logoColor=white)](https://www.inf.uni-hamburg.de/en/inst/ab/wtm/research/software.html#wrapyfi "webpage link")
[![paper](https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/badge/Paper-blue.svg?logo=paper_sheet&logoColor=white)](https://www2.informatik.uni-hamburg.de/wtm/publications/2024/AAFW24/Abawi_HRI24.pdf "paper link")
[![researchgate](https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/badge/ResearchGate-white.svg?logo=researchgate)](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/376582189_Wrapyfi_A_Python_Wrapper_for_Integrating_Robots_Sensors_and_Applications_across_Multiple_Middleware "researchgate link")
[![paperswithcode](https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/badge/Papers%20With%20Code-white.svg?logo=paperwithcode)](https://cs.paperswithcode.com/paper/wrapyfi-a-wrapper-for-message-oriented-and "paperswithcode link")
[![modularml](https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/badge/Modular%20ML-white.svg?logo=modularml)](https://modular.ml/#wrap "modularml link")
[![arXiv](https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/badge/arXiv:2302.09648-lightyellow.svg?logo=arxiv-logomark-small)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.09648 "arXiv link")
[![doi](https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/badge/10.1145/3610977.3637471-lightyellow.svg?logo=doi_logo)](https://doi.org/10.1145/3610977.3637471 "doi link")


[![codecov](https://codecov.io/github/modular-ml/wrapyfi/graph/badge.svg?token=5SD1A6ENKE)](https://codecov.io/github/modular-ml/wrapyfi)
[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://black.readthedocs.io/ "code style link")
[![PyPI - Implementation](https://img.shields.io/pypi/implementation/wrapyfi)](https://pypi.org/project/wrapyfi/ "implementation")
[![PyPI - Python Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/wrapyfi)](https://pypi.org/project/wrapyfi/ "python version")

[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/wrapyfi.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/wrapyfi)
[![PyPI total downloads](https://img.shields.io/pepy/dt/wrapyfi)](https://www.pepy.tech/projects/wrapyfi)
[![Docker Hub Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/modularml/wrapyfi.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/modularml/wrapyfi)


[![License](https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/github/license/denvercoder1/custom-icon-badges?logo=law&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/fabawi/wrapyfi/blob/main/LICENSE "license MIT")
[![FOSSA status](https://app.fossa.com/api/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fmodular-ml%2Fwrapyfi.svg?type=shield&issueType=license)](https://app.fossa.com/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fmodular-ml%2Fwrapyfi?ref=badge_shield&issueType=license)
[![Documentation status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/wrapyfi/badge/?version=latest)](https://wrapyfi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)


Wrapyfi is a middleware communication wrapper for transmitting data across nodes, without 
altering the operation pipeline of your Python scripts. Wrapyfi introduces
a number of helper functions to make middleware integration possible without the need to learn an entire framework, just to parallelize your processes on 
multiple machines. 
Wrapyfi supports [YARP](https://www.yarp.it/yarp_swig.html), [ROS](http://wiki.ros.org/rospy), [ROS 2](https://docs.ros2.org/foxy/api/rclpy/index.html), [ZeroMQ](http://zeromq.org/), and [Websocket](https://socket.io/).

To integrate Wrapyfi with your scripts, add the decorators describing the transmitting and listening method parameters.

# Attribution

Please refer to the following [paper](https://www2.informatik.uni-hamburg.de/wtm/publications/2024/AAFW24/Abawi_HRI24.pdf) when citing Wrapyfi in academic work:

```
@inproceedings{abawi2024wrapyfi,
  title = {Wrapyfi: A Python Wrapper for Integrating Robots, Sensors, and Applications across Multiple Middleware},
  author = {Abawi, Fares and Allgeuer, Philipp and Fu, Di and Wermter, Stefan},
  booktitle = {Proceedings of the ACM/IEEE International Conference on Human-Robot Interaction (HRI '24)},
  year = {2024},
  organization = {ACM},
  isbn = {79-8-4007-0322-5},
  doi = {10.1145/3610977.3637471},
  url = {https://github.com/fabawi/wrapyfi}
}
```

# Getting Started

Before using Wrapyfi, YARP, ROS, or ZeroMQ must be installed.

* Follow the [YARP installation guide](https://github.com/fabawi/wrapyfi/tree/main/wrapyfi_extensions/yarp/README.md?rank=0).<!-- [YARP installation guide](docs/yarp_install_lnk.md). -->
Note that the iCub package is not needed for Wrapyfi to work and does not have to be installed if you do not intend to use the iCub robot.

* For installing ROS, follow the ROS installation guide [\[Ubuntu\]](http://wiki.ros.org/noetic/Installation/Ubuntu)[\[Windows\]](https://wiki.ros.org/noetic/Installation/Windows). 
We recommend installing ROS on Conda using the [RoboStack](https://github.com/RoboStack/ros-noetic) environment. Additionally, the 
[Wrapyfi ROS interfaces](https://github.com/modular-ml/wrapyfi_ros_interfaces/blob/master/README.md?rank=0) must be
built to support messages needed for audio transmission [![ROS Package Index](https://img.shields.io/ros/v/noetic/wrapyfi_ros_interfaces)](https://index.ros.org/r/wrapyfi_ros_interfaces/#noetic)

* For installing ROS 2, follow the ROS 2 installation guide [\[Ubuntu\]](https://docs.ros.org/en/humble/Installation/Ubuntu-Install-Debians.html)[\[Windows\]](https://docs.ros.org/en/humble/Installation/Windows-Install-Binary.html). 
We recommend installing ROS 2 on Conda using the [RoboStack](https://github.com/RoboStack/ros-humble) environment. Additionally, the 
[Wrapyfi ROS 2 interfaces](https://github.com/modular-ml/wrapyfi_ros2_interfaces/blob/master/README.md?rank=0) 
must be built to support messages and services needed for audio transmission and the REQ/REP pattern [![ROS Package Index](https://img.shields.io/ros/v/humble/wrapyfi_ros2_interfaces)](https://index.ros.org/p/wrapyfi_ros2_interfaces/#humble)

* ZeroMQ can be installed using pip: `pip install pyzmq`. 
The xpub-xsub pattern followed in our ZeroMQ implementation requires a proxy broker. A broker is spawned by default as a daemon process.
To avoid automatic spawning, pass the argument `start_proxy_broker=False` to the method register decorator. 
A standalone broker can be found [here](https://github.com/fabawi/wrapyfi/tree/main/wrapyfi/standalone/zeromq_proxy_broker.py)

* Websocket can be installed using pip: `pip install python-socketio`. 
The xpub-xsub pattern followed in our Websocket implementation requires a socket server. We recommend setting the server 
to run using [Flask-SocketIO](https://flask-socketio.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) which can be installed with `pip install flask-socketio`.
Note that the server must be running and also scripted to forward messages to the listening from the publishing client as demonstrated in the example found 
[here](https://github.com/fabawi/wrapyfi/tree/main/wrapyfi/examples/websockets/websocket_server.py)
* 
#### Compatibility
* Operating System
  - [x] Ubuntu >= 18.04 (Not tested with earlier versions of Ubuntu or other Linux distributions)
  - [x] Windows >= 10 [*beta support*]: 
    * Multiprocessing is disabled. ZeroMQ brokers spawn as threads only
    * Not tested with YARP and ROS 2
    * ROS only tested within mamba/micromamba environment installed using [RoboStack](https://github.com/RoboStack/ros-noetic)
    * ROS and ROS 2 interfaces not tested 
    * Installation instructions across Wrapyfi guides and tutorials are not guaranteed to be compatible with Windows 11
  - [ ] MacOS 10.14 Mojave [![planned](https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/badge/planned%20for%20Wrapyfi%20v0.5-%23C2E0C6.svg?logo=hourglass&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/modular-ml/wrapyfi/issues/99 "planned link")
* Python >= 3.6
* OpenCV >= 4.2
* NumPy >= 1.19


* YARP >= v3.3.2 
* ROS Noetic Ninjemys
* ROS 2 Humble Hawksbill **|** Galactic Geochelone **|** Foxy Fitzroy 
* PyZMQ 16.0, 17.1 and 19.0
* Python-SocketIO >= 5.0.4


## Installation

You can install Wrapyfi with **pip** or from source.

### Pip

To install all the necessary components for the majority of common uses of Wrapyfi (e.g., NativeObject, Image, Audio, etc.) using **pip**, this process installs both Wrapyfi and its dependencies, like NumPy and OpenCV (`opencv-contrib-python`, `opencv-headless`, and `opencv-python` are supported), that are essential for various workloads, along with ZeroMQ being the default middleware. This option is the best for users running Wrapyfi out of the box in a newly created environment (without any middleware installed beforehand), installing `numpy`, `opencv-contrib-python`, and `pyzmq`:

```
pip install wrapyfi[all]
```

*Note that most plugins require additional dependencies and should be installed separately.*
 
or when installing Wrapyfi on a *server* (headless) including `numpy`, `opencv-python-headless`, and `pyzmq`:

```
pip install wrapyfi[headless]
```

Other middleware such as ROS are environment-specific and require dependencies that cannot be installed using pip. 
Wrapyfi **could** and should be used within such environments with minimal requirements to avoid conflicts with existing NumPy and OpenCV packages:

```
pip install wrapyfi
```

### Source (Pip)

Clone this repository:

```
git clone --recursive https://github.com/fabawi/wrapyfi.git
cd wrapyfi
```

You can choose to install minimal dependencies including `numpy`, `opencv-contrib-python`, and `pyzmq`, for running a basic Wrapyfi script:

```
pip install .[all]
```

or when installing Wrapyfi on a *server* (headless) including `numpy`, `opencv-python-headless`, and `pyzmq`:

```
pip install .[headless]
```

or when installing Wrapyfi to work with websockets (headless) including `numpy`, `opencv-python-headless`, and `python-socketio`:

```
pip install .[headless_websockets]
```

or install Wrapyfi *without* NumPy, OpenCV, ZeroMQ, and Websockets:

```
pip install .
```

### Docker

Wrapyfi Docker images can be pulled/installed directly from the [modularml/wrapyfi](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/modularml/wrapyfi) repository on the Docker Hub. Dockerfiles for all supported environments can be built as well by following the [Wrapyfi Docker instructions](https://github.com/fabawi/wrapyfi/tree/main/dockerfiles/README.md?rank=0).


## Usage

Wrapyfi supports two patterns of communication: 
* **Publisher-Subscriber** (PUB/SUB): A publisher sends data to a subscriber accepting arguments and executing methods on the publisher's end.
e.g., with YARP


<table>
<tr>
<th> Without Wrapyfi </th>
<th> With Wrapyfi </th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<sub style="white-space: pre-wrap;">

```python
# Just your usual Python class


class HelloWorld(object):
    
    
    
    
    def send_message(self):
        msg = input("Type your message: ")
        obj = {"message": msg}
        return obj,


hello_world = HelloWorld()



    

while True:
    my_message, = hello_world.send_message()
    print(my_message)
```
    
</sub>
</td>
<td>
<sub style="white-space: pre-wrap;">

```python
from wrapyfi.connect.wrapper import MiddlewareCommunicator


class HelloWorld(MiddlewareCommunicator):
    @MiddlewareCommunicator.register("NativeObject", "yarp",
                                     "HelloWorld", 
                                     "/hello/my_message", 
                                     carrier="", should_wait=True)
    def send_message(self):
        msg = input("Type your message: ")
        obj = {"message": msg}
        return obj,


hello_world = HelloWorld()

LISTEN = True
mode = "listen" if LISTEN else "publish"
hello_world.activate_communication(hello_world.send_message, mode=mode)

while True:
    my_message, = hello_world.send_message()
    print(my_message)
```
    
</sub>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

Run `yarpserver` from the command line. Now execute the Python script above (with Wrapyfi) twice setting `LISTEN = False` and `LISTEN = True`. You can now type with the publisher's command line and preview the message within the listener's


* **Request-Reply** (REQ/REP): A requester sends a request to a responder, which responds to the request in a synchronous manner.
e.g., with ROS

<table>
<tr>
<th> Without Wrapyfi </th>
<th> With Wrapyfi </th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<sub style="white-space: pre-wrap;">

```python
# Just your usual Python class


class HelloWorld(object):
    
    
    
    
    def send_message(self, a, b):
        msg = input("Type your message: ")
        obj = {"message": msg, 
               "a": a, "b": b, "sum": a + b}
        return obj,


hello_world = HelloWorld()



    

while True:
    my_message, = hello_world.send_message(a=1, 
                                           b=2)
    print(my_message)
```
    
</sub>
</td>
<td>
<sub style="white-space: pre-wrap;">

```python
from wrapyfi.connect.wrapper import MiddlewareCommunicator


class HelloWorld(MiddlewareCommunicator):
    @MiddlewareCommunicator.register("NativeObject", "ros",
                                     "HelloWorld", 
                                     "/hello/my_message", 
                                     carrier="", should_wait=True)
    def send_message(self, a, b):
        msg = input("Type your message: ")
        obj = {"message": msg, 
               "a": a, "b": b, "sum": a + b}
        return obj,


hello_world = HelloWorld()

LISTEN = True
mode = "request" if LISTEN else "reply"
hello_world.activate_communication(hello_world.send_message, mode=mode)

while True:
    my_message, = hello_world.send_message(a=1 if LISTEN else None, 
                                           b=2 if LISTEN else None)
    print(my_message)
```
    
</sub>
</td>
</tr>
</table>




Run `roscore` from the command line. Now execute the Python script above (with Wrapyfi) twice setting `LISTEN = False` and `LISTEN = True`. You can now type within the server's command line and preview the message within the client's. 
Note that the server's command line will not show the message until the client's command line has been used to send a request. The arguments are passed from the client to the server and the server's response is passed back to the client.

For more examples of usage, refer to the [user guide](docs/usage.md). Run scripts in the [examples directory](https://github.com/fabawi/wrapyfi/tree/main/examples) for trying out Wrapyfi. 

# Supported Formats

## Middleware
- [x] **YARP**
- [x] **ROS**
- [x] **ROS 2**
- [x] **ZeroMQ** [*beta feature*]: 
  * `should_wait` trigger introduced with event monitoring
  * Event monitoring currently cannot be disabled [![planned](https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/badge/planned%20for%20Wrapyfi%20v0.5-%23C2E0C6.svg?logo=hourglass&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/modular-ml/wrapyfi/issues/99 "planned link")
- [x] **Websockets** *Only PUB/SUB* [*alpha support*]: 

## Serializers
- [x] **JSON**
- [ ] **msgpack**
- [ ] **protobuf**


## Data Structures

Supported Objects by the `NativeObject` type include:

- [x] [**NumPy Array | Generic**](https://numpy.org/doc/1.23/)
- [x] [**PyTorch Tensor**](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/index.html)
- [x] [**TensorFlow 2 Tensor**](https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf)
- [x] [**JAX Tensor**](https://jax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
- [x] [**Trax Array**](https://trax-ml.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
- [x] [**MXNet Tensor**](https://mxnet.apache.org/versions/1.9.1/api/python.html)
- [x] [**PaddlePaddle Tensor**](https://www.paddlepaddle.org.cn/documentation/docs/en/guides/index_en.html) [![limitation](https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/badge/version%20<%202.6.0-red.svg?logo=dependency&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/PaddlePaddle/Paddle/issues/62967 "issue link")
- [x] [**pandas DataFrame | Series**](https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/)
- [x] [**Pillow Image**](https://pillow.readthedocs.io/en/stable/reference/Image.html)
- [x] [**PyArrow Array**](https://arrow.apache.org/docs/python/index.html)
- [x] [**CuPy Array**](https://docs.cupy.dev/en/stable/index.html)
- [x] [**Xarray DataArray | Dataset**](http://xarray.pydata.org/en/stable/)
- [x] [**Dask Array | DataFrame**](https://www.dask.org/get-started)
- [x] [**Zarr Array | Group**](https://zarr.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
- [x] [**Pint Quantity**](https://pint.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
- [ ] [**Gmpy 2 MPZ**](https://gmpy2.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) [![planned](https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/badge/planned%20for%20Wrapyfi%20v0.5-%23C2E0C6.svg?logo=hourglass&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/modular-ml/wrapyfi/issues/99 "planned link")
- [ ] [**MLX Tensor**](https://ml-explore.github.io/mlx/build/html/index.html) [![planned](https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/badge/planned%20for%20Wrapyfi%20v0.5-%23C2E0C6.svg?logo=hourglass&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/modular-ml/wrapyfi/issues/99 "planned link")


## Image

Supported Objects by the `Image` type include:

- [x] **NumPy Array** [*supports many libraries including [scikit-image](https://scikit-image.org/), [imageio](https://imageio.readthedocs.io/en/stable/), [Open CV](https://opencv.org/), [imutils](https://github.com/PyImageSearch/imutils), [matplotlib.image](https://matplotlib.org/stable/api/image_api.html), and [Mahotas](https://mahotas.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)*]


## Sound 

Supported Objects by the `AudioChunk` type include:

- [x] Tuple(**NumPy Array**, int) [*supports the [sounddevice](https://python-sounddevice.readthedocs.io/en/0.4.5/) format*]

Commit message:

Added support for the MQTT middleware with the PUB/SUB pattern

README.md, after:


<p align="center">
  <img width="460" height="300" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fabawi/wrapyfi/main/assets/wrapyfi.png">
</p>


<hl/>

[![webpage](https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/badge/Page-blue.svg?logo=globe&logoColor=white)](https://www.inf.uni-hamburg.de/en/inst/ab/wtm/research/software.html#wrapyfi "webpage link")
[![paper](https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/badge/Paper-blue.svg?logo=paper_sheet&logoColor=white)](https://www2.informatik.uni-hamburg.de/wtm/publications/2024/AAFW24/Abawi_HRI24.pdf "paper link")
[![researchgate](https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/badge/ResearchGate-white.svg?logo=researchgate)](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/376582189_Wrapyfi_A_Python_Wrapper_for_Integrating_Robots_Sensors_and_Applications_across_Multiple_Middleware "researchgate link")
[![paperswithcode](https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/badge/Papers%20With%20Code-white.svg?logo=paperwithcode)](https://cs.paperswithcode.com/paper/wrapyfi-a-wrapper-for-message-oriented-and "paperswithcode link")
[![modularml](https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/badge/Modular%20ML-white.svg?logo=modularml)](https://modular.ml/#wrap "modularml link")
[![arXiv](https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/badge/arXiv:2302.09648-lightyellow.svg?logo=arxiv-logomark-small)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.09648 "arXiv link")
[![doi](https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/badge/10.1145/3610977.3637471-lightyellow.svg?logo=doi_logo)](https://doi.org/10.1145/3610977.3637471 "doi link")


[![codecov](https://codecov.io/github/modular-ml/wrapyfi/graph/badge.svg?token=5SD1A6ENKE)](https://codecov.io/github/modular-ml/wrapyfi)
[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://black.readthedocs.io/ "code style link")
[![PyPI - Implementation](https://img.shields.io/pypi/implementation/wrapyfi)](https://pypi.org/project/wrapyfi/ "implementation")
[![PyPI - Python Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/wrapyfi)](https://pypi.org/project/wrapyfi/ "python version")

[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/wrapyfi.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/wrapyfi)
[![PyPI total downloads](https://img.shields.io/pepy/dt/wrapyfi)](https://www.pepy.tech/projects/wrapyfi)
[![Docker Hub Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/modularml/wrapyfi.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/modularml/wrapyfi)


[![License](https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/github/license/denvercoder1/custom-icon-badges?logo=law&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/fabawi/wrapyfi/blob/main/LICENSE "license MIT")
[![FOSSA status](https://app.fossa.com/api/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fmodular-ml%2Fwrapyfi.svg?type=shield&issueType=license)](https://app.fossa.com/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fmodular-ml%2Fwrapyfi?ref=badge_shield&issueType=license)
[![Documentation status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/wrapyfi/badge/?version=latest)](https://wrapyfi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)


Wrapyfi is a middleware communication wrapper for transmitting data across nodes, without 
altering the operation pipeline of your Python scripts. Wrapyfi introduces
a number of helper functions to make middleware integration possible without the need to learn an entire framework, just to parallelize your processes on 
multiple machines. 
Wrapyfi supports [YARP](https://www.yarp.it/yarp_swig.html), [ROS](http://wiki.ros.org/rospy), [ROS 2](https://docs.ros2.org/foxy/api/rclpy/index.html), [ZeroMQ](http://zeromq.org/), and [Websocket](https://socket.io/).

To integrate Wrapyfi with your scripts, add the decorators describing the transmitting and listening method parameters.

# Attribution

Please refer to the following [paper](https://www2.informatik.uni-hamburg.de/wtm/publications/2024/AAFW24/Abawi_HRI24.pdf) when citing Wrapyfi in academic work:

```
@inproceedings{abawi2024wrapyfi,
  title = {Wrapyfi: A Python Wrapper for Integrating Robots, Sensors, and Applications across Multiple Middleware},
  author = {Abawi, Fares and Allgeuer, Philipp and Fu, Di and Wermter, Stefan},
  booktitle = {Proceedings of the ACM/IEEE International Conference on Human-Robot Interaction (HRI '24)},
  year = {2024},
  organization = {ACM},
  isbn = {79-8-4007-0322-5},
  doi = {10.1145/3610977.3637471},
  url = {https://github.com/fabawi/wrapyfi}
}
```

# Getting Started

Before using Wrapyfi, YARP, ROS, or ZeroMQ must be installed.

* Follow the [YARP installation guide](https://github.com/fabawi/wrapyfi/tree/main/wrapyfi_extensions/yarp/README.md?rank=0).<!-- [YARP installation guide](docs/yarp_install_lnk.md). -->
Note that the iCub package is not needed for Wrapyfi to work and does not have to be installed if you do not intend to use the iCub robot.

* For installing ROS, follow the ROS installation guide [\[Ubuntu\]](http://wiki.ros.org/noetic/Installation/Ubuntu)[\[Windows\]](https://wiki.ros.org/noetic/Installation/Windows). 
We recommend installing ROS on Conda using the [RoboStack](https://github.com/RoboStack/ros-noetic) environment. Additionally, the 
[Wrapyfi ROS interfaces](https://github.com/modular-ml/wrapyfi_ros_interfaces/blob/master/README.md?rank=0) must be
built to support messages needed for audio transmission [![ROS Package Index](https://img.shields.io/ros/v/noetic/wrapyfi_ros_interfaces)](https://index.ros.org/r/wrapyfi_ros_interfaces/#noetic)

* For installing ROS 2, follow the ROS 2 installation guide [\[Ubuntu\]](https://docs.ros.org/en/humble/Installation/Ubuntu-Install-Debians.html)[\[Windows\]](https://docs.ros.org/en/humble/Installation/Windows-Install-Binary.html). 
We recommend installing ROS 2 on Conda using the [RoboStack](https://github.com/RoboStack/ros-humble) environment. Additionally, the 
[Wrapyfi ROS 2 interfaces](https://github.com/modular-ml/wrapyfi_ros2_interfaces/blob/master/README.md?rank=0) 
must be built to support messages and services needed for audio transmission and the REQ/REP pattern [![ROS Package Index](https://img.shields.io/ros/v/humble/wrapyfi_ros2_interfaces)](https://index.ros.org/p/wrapyfi_ros2_interfaces/#humble)

* ZeroMQ can be installed using pip: `pip install pyzmq`. 
The XPUB/XSUB and XREQ/XREP patterns followed in our ZeroMQ implementation requires a proxy broker. A broker is spawned by default as a daemon process.
To avoid automatic spawning, pass the argument `start_proxy_broker=False` to the method register decorator. 
A standalone broker can be found [here](https://github.com/fabawi/wrapyfi/tree/main/wrapyfi/standalone/zeromq_proxy_broker.py)

* Websocket can be installed using pip: `pip install python-socketio`. 
The PUB/SUB pattern followed in our Websocket implementation requires a socket server. We recommend setting the server 
to run using [Flask-SocketIO](https://flask-socketio.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) which can be installed with `pip install flask-socketio`.
Note that the server must be running and also scripted to forward messages to the listening from the publishing client as demonstrated in the example found 
[here](https://github.com/fabawi/wrapyfi/tree/main/wrapyfi/examples/websockets/websocket_server.py)

* MQTT can be installed using pip: `pip install paho-mqtt`.
The PUB/SUB pattern followed in our MQTT implementation requires a broker. The default broker used by Wrapyfi [broker.emqx.io](https://broker.emqx.io). However, 
this broker is not recommended for production use or for transmitting video/audio as it is a public online broker and requires an internet connection (not secure and suffers high latency). We recommend setting up a local broker
using [Mosquitto](https://mosquitto.org/download/). A Dockerized bersion can be found [here](https://github.com/sukesh-ak/setup-mosquitto-with-docker). The broker must be running and the `WRAPYFI_MQTT_BROKER_ADDRESS` as well as `WRAPYFI_MQTT_BROKER_PORT` environment variables must be set to the 
broker's address and port respectively. When setting up a local broker with a username and password, they can be passed through the Wrapyfi method decorator as follows:

```python
@MiddlewareCommunicator.register("NativeObject", "mqtt",
                                 "HelloWorld", 
                                 "/hello/my_message", 
                                 carrier="", should_wait=True,
                                 mqtt_kwargs=dict(username="username", password="password"))
def send_message(self):
    ...
```


#### Compatibility
* Operating System
  - [x] Ubuntu >= 18.04 (Not tested with earlier versions of Ubuntu or other Linux distributions)
  - [x] Windows >= 10 [*beta support*]: 
    * Multiprocessing is disabled. ZeroMQ brokers spawn as threads only
    * Not tested with YARP and ROS 2
    * ROS only tested within mamba/micromamba environment installed using [RoboStack](https://github.com/RoboStack/ros-noetic)
    * ROS and ROS 2 interfaces not tested 
    * Installation instructions across Wrapyfi guides and tutorials are not guaranteed to be compatible with Windows 11
  - [ ] MacOS 10.14 Mojave [![planned](https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/badge/planned%20for%20Wrapyfi%20v0.5-%23C2E0C6.svg?logo=hourglass&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/modular-ml/wrapyfi/issues/99 "planned link")
* Python >= 3.6
* OpenCV >= 4.2
* NumPy >= 1.19


* YARP >= v3.3.2 
* ROS Noetic Ninjemys
* ROS 2 Humble Hawksbill **|** Galactic Geochelone **|** Foxy Fitzroy 
* PyZMQ 16.0, 17.1 and 19.0
* Python-SocketIO >= 5.0.4
* Paho-MQTT >= 2.0 *(Hard-coded to v2 in Wrapyfi and not compatible with v1)*


## Installation

You can install Wrapyfi with **pip** or from source.

### Pip

To install all the necessary components for the majority of common uses of Wrapyfi (e.g., NativeObject, Image, Audio, etc.) using **pip**, this process installs both Wrapyfi and its dependencies, like NumPy and OpenCV (`opencv-contrib-python`, `opencv-headless`, and `opencv-python` are supported), that are essential for various workloads, along with ZeroMQ being the default middleware. This option is the best for users running Wrapyfi out of the box in a newly created environment (without any middleware installed beforehand), installing `numpy`, `opencv-contrib-python`, and `pyzmq`:

```
pip install wrapyfi[all]
```

*Note that most plugins require additional dependencies and should be installed separately.*
 
or when installing Wrapyfi on a *server* (headless) including `numpy`, `opencv-python-headless`, and `pyzmq`:

```
pip install wrapyfi[headless]
```

Other middleware such as ROS are environment-specific and require dependencies that cannot be installed using pip. 
Wrapyfi **could** and should be used within such environments with minimal requirements to avoid conflicts with existing NumPy and OpenCV packages:

```
pip install wrapyfi
```

### Source (Pip)

Clone this repository:

```
git clone --recursive https://github.com/fabawi/wrapyfi.git
cd wrapyfi
```

You can choose to install minimal dependencies including `numpy`, `opencv-contrib-python`, and `pyzmq`, for running a basic Wrapyfi script:

```
pip install .[all]
```

or when installing Wrapyfi on a *server* (headless) including `numpy`, `opencv-python-headless`, and `pyzmq`:

```
pip install .[headless]
```

or when installing Wrapyfi to work with websockets (headless) including `numpy`, `opencv-python-headless`, and `python-socketio`:

```
pip install .[headless_websockets]
```

or when installing Wrapyfi to work with MQTT (headless) including `numpy`, `opencv-python-headless`, and `paho-mqtt`:

```
pip install .[headless_mqtt]
```

or install Wrapyfi *without* NumPy, OpenCV, ZeroMQ, Websocket, and MQTT:

```
pip install .
```

### Docker

Wrapyfi Docker images can be pulled/installed directly from the [modularml/wrapyfi](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/modularml/wrapyfi) repository on the Docker Hub. Dockerfiles for all supported environments can be built as well by following the [Wrapyfi Docker instructions](https://github.com/fabawi/wrapyfi/tree/main/dockerfiles/README.md?rank=0).


## Usage

Wrapyfi supports two patterns of communication: 
* **Publisher-Subscriber** (PUB/SUB): A publisher sends data to a subscriber accepting arguments and executing methods on the publisher's end.
e.g., with YARP


<table>
<tr>
<th> Without Wrapyfi </th>
<th> With Wrapyfi </th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<sub style="white-space: pre-wrap;">

```python
# Just your usual Python class


class HelloWorld(object):
    
    
    
    
    def send_message(self):
        msg = input("Type your message: ")
        obj = {"message": msg}
        return obj,


hello_world = HelloWorld()



    

while True:
    my_message, = hello_world.send_message()
    print(my_message)
```
    
</sub>
</td>
<td>
<sub style="white-space: pre-wrap;">

```python
from wrapyfi.connect.wrapper import MiddlewareCommunicator


class HelloWorld(MiddlewareCommunicator):
    @MiddlewareCommunicator.register("NativeObject", "yarp",
                                     "HelloWorld", 
                                     "/hello/my_message", 
                                     carrier="", should_wait=True)
    def send_message(self):
        msg = input("Type your message: ")
        obj = {"message": msg}
        return obj,


hello_world = HelloWorld()

LISTEN = True
mode = "listen" if LISTEN else "publish"
hello_world.activate_communication(hello_world.send_message, mode=mode)

while True:
    my_message, = hello_world.send_message()
    print(my_message)
```
    
</sub>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

Run `yarpserver` from the command line. Now execute the Python script above (with Wrapyfi) twice setting `LISTEN = False` and `LISTEN = True`. You can now type with the publisher's command line and preview the message within the listener's


* **Request-Reply** (REQ/REP): A requester sends a request to a responder, which responds to the request in a synchronous manner.
e.g., with ROS

<table>
<tr>
<th> Without Wrapyfi </th>
<th> With Wrapyfi </th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<sub style="white-space: pre-wrap;">

```python
# Just your usual Python class


class HelloWorld(object):
    
    
    
    
    def send_message(self, a, b):
        msg = input("Type your message: ")
        obj = {"message": msg, 
               "a": a, "b": b, "sum": a + b}
        return obj,


hello_world = HelloWorld()



    

while True:
    my_message, = hello_world.send_message(a=1, 
                                           b=2)
    print(my_message)
```
    
</sub>
</td>
<td>
<sub style="white-space: pre-wrap;">

```python
from wrapyfi.connect.wrapper import MiddlewareCommunicator


class HelloWorld(MiddlewareCommunicator):
    @MiddlewareCommunicator.register("NativeObject", "ros",
                                     "HelloWorld", 
                                     "/hello/my_message", 
                                     carrier="", should_wait=True)
    def send_message(self, a, b):
        msg = input("Type your message: ")
        obj = {"message": msg, 
               "a": a, "b": b, "sum": a + b}
        return obj,


hello_world = HelloWorld()

LISTEN = True
mode = "request" if LISTEN else "reply"
hello_world.activate_communication(hello_world.send_message, mode=mode)

while True:
    my_message, = hello_world.send_message(a=1 if LISTEN else None, 
                                           b=2 if LISTEN else None)
    print(my_message)
```
    
</sub>
</td>
</tr>
</table>




Run `roscore` from the command line. Now execute the Python script above (with Wrapyfi) twice setting `LISTEN = False` and `LISTEN = True`. You can now type within the server's command line and preview the message within the client's. 
Note that the server's command line will not show the message until the client's command line has been used to send a request. The arguments are passed from the client to the server and the server's response is passed back to the client.

For more examples of usage, refer to the [user guide](docs/usage.md). Run scripts in the [examples directory](https://github.com/fabawi/wrapyfi/tree/main/examples) for trying out Wrapyfi. 

# Supported Formats

## Middleware
- [x] **YARP**
- [x] **ROS**
- [x] **ROS 2**
- [x] **ZeroMQ** [*beta feature*]: 
  * `should_wait` trigger introduced with event monitoring
  * Event monitoring currently cannot be disabled [![planned](https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/badge/planned%20for%20Wrapyfi%20v0.5-%23C2E0C6.svg?logo=hourglass&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/modular-ml/wrapyfi/issues/99 "planned link")
- [x] **Websocket** *Only PUB/SUB* [*alpha support*]
- [x] **MQTT** *Only PUB/SUB* [*alpha support*]

## Serializers
- [x] **JSON**
- [ ] **msgpack**
- [ ] **protobuf**


## Data Structures

Supported Objects by the `NativeObject` type include:

- [x] [**NumPy Array | Generic**](https://numpy.org/doc/1.23/)
- [x] [**PyTorch Tensor**](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/index.html)
- [x] [**TensorFlow 2 Tensor**](https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf)
- [x] [**JAX Tensor**](https://jax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
- [x] [**Trax Array**](https://trax-ml.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
- [x] [**MXNet Tensor**](https://mxnet.apache.org/versions/1.9.1/api/python.html)
- [x] [**PaddlePaddle Tensor**](https://www.paddlepaddle.org.cn/documentation/docs/en/guides/index_en.html) [![limitation](https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/badge/version%20<%202.6.0-red.svg?logo=dependency&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/PaddlePaddle/Paddle/issues/62967 "issue link")
- [x] [**pandas DataFrame | Series**](https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/)
- [x] [**Pillow Image**](https://pillow.readthedocs.io/en/stable/reference/Image.html)
- [x] [**PyArrow Array**](https://arrow.apache.org/docs/python/index.html)
- [x] [**CuPy Array**](https://docs.cupy.dev/en/stable/index.html)
- [x] [**Xarray DataArray | Dataset**](http://xarray.pydata.org/en/stable/)
- [x] [**Dask Array | DataFrame**](https://www.dask.org/get-started)
- [x] [**Zarr Array | Group**](https://zarr.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
- [x] [**Pint Quantity**](https://pint.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
- [ ] [**Gmpy 2 MPZ**](https://gmpy2.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) [![planned](https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/badge/planned%20for%20Wrapyfi%20v0.5-%23C2E0C6.svg?logo=hourglass&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/modular-ml/wrapyfi/issues/99 "planned link")
- [ ] [**MLX Tensor**](https://ml-explore.github.io/mlx/build/html/index.html) [![planned](https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/badge/planned%20for%20Wrapyfi%20v0.5-%23C2E0C6.svg?logo=hourglass&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/modular-ml/wrapyfi/issues/99 "planned link")


## Image

Supported Objects by the `Image` type include:

- [x] **NumPy Array** [*supports many libraries including [scikit-image](https://scikit-image.org/), [imageio](https://imageio.readthedocs.io/en/stable/), [Open CV](https://opencv.org/), [imutils](https://github.com/PyImageSearch/imutils), [matplotlib.image](https://matplotlib.org/stable/api/image_api.html), and [Mahotas](https://mahotas.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)*]


## Sound 

Supported Objects by the `AudioChunk` type include:

- [x] Tuple(**NumPy Array**, int) [*supports the [sounddevice](https://python-sounddevice.readthedocs.io/en/0.4.5/) format*]
